Axle Press		Reps/Weight
	Resembling a traditional Clean & Press, with a twist, a bar twice the thickness of a normal olympic bar, with unconventional weights on the side.
	Huge truck wheels on each side weigh 100KG each, and leave enough space to plate-load more weight if needed, this is the most awkward clean & press an athlete will attempt.

Dumbbell Press		Reps/Weight
	Not like any dumbbell you've seen in your gym, Elite Athletes must lift and press this plate-loaded dumbbell overhead.
	Extending on a log lift, athletes must press this dumbbell overhead as many times as possible. Athletes can switch arms between lifts meaning they can push their bodies to the limit in order to win at this discipline.

Elite Anvil		Distance/Time
	Our Anvil weighs a massive 165kg, factor in the complexity of its shape, its fair to say Elite Athletes don't exactly look forward to this discipline.
	We ask of Elite Athletes to pick this anvil up and carry it, either as quickly across a course, or for as far across a course as they can.

Elite Cross		Distance/Weight
	A steel cross, weighing an outstanding 210kg, is carried across a course for either the fastest time or the longest distance.
	Weighing in at 210kg our Elite Cross weighs significantly more than its WSM counterpart, this pushes Elite Athletes to their absolute limits. Watch as multiple members of our Elite crew struggle with re-instating this event each time, then be in awe as our athletes manage to carry this themselves.


Elite Stone Press	Reps/Weight
	

Hand over Hand		Time
	The Athlete remains sitting at one end of the course, whilst pulling an object from the other end of the course - the object? A Car? Or a truck? Maybe with a trailer?
	Using an attached rope, an athlete must pull an object from one end of the course to the other in the fastest time possible. Athletes will have a solid base with which to balance themselves by placing their feet upon, and whilst the discipline name would suggest arm strength being the number one factor, actually, an intelligent athlete utilises their leg strength more so. When the slack is taken in a crouched position, the movement of straightening the legs along with stretching their upper body flat, delivers the most power for an athlete, where good technique like this would finally rely upon the athlete's grip strength and speed to get the fastest possible time. 

Keg Toss		Time
	An homage to long-standing tradition of the Highland games and the disciplines, an athlete takes small kegs and throws them overhead, clearing a designated height.
	Kegs range from 12kg TO 22kg and the athlete will stand in in front of our Elite Flagpoles, where a horizontal bar designated a height with which they must throw the keg over. Any keg that does not clear the bar must be gathered by the competitor and brought back into position before attempting the throw again.	

Log Lift		Reps/Weight
	Not your average clean-and-press, Elite athletes race to see how many times they can press this above their head, or how heavy a log they can press.
	Our logs are plate-loaded, even our wooden log, so weigh appropriately for the competition. Traditionally used to lift the maximum weight possible, an increase in athletic calibre forced an adaption to see how many times an incredible weight could be pressed. Elite Referees are very strict in their judgement of this event. Athletes clean the log to their chest before pressing above their head, with arms straightened, the athletes head facing forward and their feet planted to the floor in control of the log. This event commonly finds referees failing lifts for not adhering to these rules.
	

Pole Push		
	

Railway Walk		Distance/Time
	

Squat			Reps/Weight
	
